A player does not get XP, nor can he loot a mob aggroed by someone else if he is
not grouped in some way (party, raid etc) with the puller (XP is also not
rewarded if the mob is a number of levels below you... 5 I think)

[sidenote]: the above rules are also determinant for the warlock ability to pull
soulshard from mobs (he can only get a soulshard if he gets XP for that mob)

In case of looting a boss (elite) for a quest item, all the members of the group
can loot that specific quest item (once per kill, of course)

Group loot rules:

* Free for all. Everyone can loot. 

* Round robin. Everyone takes a turn. When it's your turn to loot, you'll see
sparklies above the mob. My favorite.

* Master loot. One person only can loot.

* Need before greed. Not well implemented, in my opinion. Based on what you can
use. So, casters can only be eligible for cloth. Warriors, for example, are
eligible for everything because they can wear cloth, leather, chain and mail.

* Threshold. This is a special setting, which is used in conjunction with all
the other ones. It basically forces people to roll on items according to the
threshold. So, if it's set to uncommon (for example), everyone will get a pop-up
box with the options to pass or roll on any blue item (uncommon quality). The
winner automatically gets the item added to their inventory.

UPDATE: It was mentioned in a pre-beta note that they MAY be increasing the
range of xp bearing mobs for higher level characters. I believe it will be 20%
of your level with a minimum of 5 levels. We will hopefully have this in the
next patch (beta 1, my note), but no promises.

Examples: 
Level 10 character would get experience from level 6+ mobs 
Level 50 character would get experience from level 40+ mobs




Looting While Solo 
You already know this, you can loot what you kill. Mob tagging applies. but I'll
touch this a bit later.

Looting While In A Party 
There are five group looting parameters: 

Free-for-all: First-come, first-served. Anyone can loot what the party has killed. 

Designated looter: One person in the group, designated by the leader, loots all
corpses.

Round-robin: Party members take turns looting corpses. Seems to apply wether you
participated in killing the mob or not.

Group loot: When an item equal to or above the threshold (details on threshold
below) is on a monster that is killed, everyone gets a pop-up box on their
screen with the item and pass or roll options and a timer. Anyone who rolls,
displays a number between 1 and 100, the highest roller of all those who choose
to roll automatically gets the item. Anyone who waits until the timer expires
automatically passes. Items below the threshold are taken care of by normal
round robin rules.

Need before Greed: Same as group loot, except players who cannot use the item
automatically pass.

In all group loot settings, money on the corpse is distributed as evenly as
possible among all party members. Grey or white items on the corpse can be
picked up by whomever is looting it (including bind on pickup). If a corpse
carries a quest item, each member of the party who has that quest will be
allowed to loot that corpse, and each member will be able to loot the quest item
in question (this only applies to bosses - elite mobs).

Items of good (green) quality or higher might not be immediately lootable,
depending on the loot rolling threshhold established by the party leader. When
an item is available that falls within that rolling threshhold (generally set to
Uncommon = Green), the looter is prohibited from taking the item and a 'roll
window' pops up for all party members with an image of the item and two buttons
- a pair-of-dice button and a cancel button. Mouse over the picture of the item
to see its characteristics, and if you want to take it, click the pair-of-dice
button to randomly generate a number from 1 to 100. If you don't want the item,
click the cancel button and you will 'pass' on the item. The high-roller among
those who roll is awarded the item, and it goes in that character's backpack. If
everyone passes on a rollable item, the item becomes freely lootable to anyone
in the party.

Note that these group looting parameters only apply when looting corpses -
containers like chests, food crates, and the like are always treated by the game
as 'free for all', though many groups have a protocol that is used when a chest
is encountered. Two common protocols are 'roll for chest', where each party
member types '/random 100' to generate a random number and the winner loots the
entire chest, and 'high to low', where the highest level member of the group
gets first crack at the chest, takes anything she likes, then anything left is
available for the next highest level group member, etc., until the chest is
empty or no one wishes to take anything else.
