"Increases healing done by spells and effects by up to 42." 

What does this mean? Counterintuitively, it doesn't mean casting a healing spell
grants a random bonus between 1 and 42 for that particular cast. Each healing
spell will get a particular, fixed benefit from this "up to 42." This benefit
can be calculated mainly from casting time.

ActualBenefit = AdvertisedBenefit * (CastingTime / 3.5) 

Spells with a casting time of 3.5 seconds and above receive the full advertised
benefit. Spells with less casting time receive a ratio of advertised benefit.
Spells with less casting time than 1.5 seconds are still considered to be 1.5
second spells, e.g both 1.5 second spells and instant cast spells get 0.429
(which is 1.5/2.5) of the advertised benefit. DoT or HoT spells have their
benefit divided among ticks.

There are two other factors that can reduce the actual benefit: 

- Lower Ranks. The formula above only applies to the highest rank of the spell.
Having anything less than the highest rank reduces the actual benefit
drastically. Blusard does this so that players won't be tempted to spam low rank
spells whose effects might be doubled or tripled by the +Heal or +Damage
benefits.

- DoT or HoT effects after the initial spell's cast. Some spells have an initial
heal or damage followed by a DoT or HoT. That initial component does not receive
full benefit as some of it is moved to the HoT or Dot component.

Also note: 
- If you ever see an item which advertises "increases [...] spells and effects
by up to 1 to 42," then it still follows the above formula for the top limit.
However, each cast of the spell will give you a random benefit between 1 and
what would normally be the actual benefit based on casting time.

- The CastingTime value used to calculate ActualBenefit for a particular spell
does not change if a player has a Talent, buff, or debuff affecting cast time.

- Benefits are added to spells before critical hit modifications are made. So,
yes, these will raise your criticals.

P.S. Paladin's Divine Protection and Divine Shield are on the same cooldown
timer. This means you can use only one of these in 5 minutes, its cooldown
applying to both of them.
