Aggro 

A contraction of "aggression", also sometimes refered to as "hate" ot "threat".
Once a mob is "aggroed" it will begin attacking you.

Neutral mobs will become aggroed only after you begin attacking (like those near
starter towns); these are surrounded by a yellow circle when you target them.
However, most mobs (with a red circle, known as Hostile) will become aggroed as
soon as you get too close. The maximum distance at which a mob will attack is
known as a mob's "aggro radius".

Aggro also refers to how much a mob hates a particular character or feels
threatened by that character. You can build aggro by dealing more damage or
other aggressive actions. You can also gain aggro from helping another character
who has aggro on a mob - for example, a Priest healing another player who's in
combat will then also generate some aggro. A Warrior has special Abilities such
as Taunt to help them build extra aggro and work as a tank in a party. Whichever
character has the most aggro will be the one the mob attacks. That person is
then said to "have aggro". (from WoWWiki)



NPC hate system (essential) 

Quote:  
Hate is the algorythm that allows the mob to decide who to attack, according to
the damage he is receiveing, the distance from it, or if someone heals mob's
target, it's generating hate against him... It's a pretty complicated system,
essential for the gameplay tactics, based on a hate table for each creature
involved in fighting someone. The player pulling a NPC is the first one entering
its hate table (with very low hate, something like 1). The hate for a player
increases with the amount of damage the player occurs to the creature (HPs
probably). Another player attacking the creature will enter its hate table as
well, and if the hate generated by him is bigger than the puller's, the creature
will focus attacks on him. A third healing a player currently in the hate list
of the creature will generate his entrance in the hate list of that creature.
The amount of hate that he will generate is proportional with the HPs healed
(equal or 1/2, I must search more). If the target of healing is in the hate list
of more creatures, healing him seems to generate the same amount of hate on
every creature. Still, if the second player is attacking the first creature
pulled by the first, healing him will generate hate only for that creature
(since he is only in her hate table). Also, buffing a player while in combat
(auras, seals etc) will also generate hate, probably according to the damage
power it adds to the player, or the damage power it substract from the creature.


As I said, it's a complicated system and needs more investigation. For the
community, there are various studies on WoW sites and forums, just search for
them


Tests of healing aggro (medium) 

Quote:  
You can find the entire story here (1st and 4th posts). I'll only post the
conclusions next:

Healing aggro is based on HP healed, and appears to be linear. With the Subtlety
talent (-20% threat), healing generates 50-60% of the aggro (or threat, if you
like) per HP that damage dealing generates. Since aggro is generated based on HP
healed, overhealing has no effect on aggro.

Aggro for a heal is only generated on mobs that are "aware" of the player being
healed. The most reasonable guess is that the mob's awareness list is the same
as it's aggro list. This means:

- as the puller *probably* has aggro on all mobs pulled (links may be
different), healing the puller generates aggro on all those mobs

- healing a damage dealer who is hitting one mob only generates aggro on that
one mob (I already stated this before, seems to confirm)

Aggro (generated by damage or healing) does not decay over time. (tested up to 3
minutes)

Greater Heal, Flash Heal and Prayer of Healing all generate the same amount of
aggro per HP healed, subject to the application rules above. This means that
using a Greater Heal or a Flash Heal to heal a player for the same amount of HP
generates exactly the same amount of aggro. Using Prayer of Healing to
effectively heal several players generates about the same aggro as Flash Healing
each of them individually.

PW:S generates roughly half the aggro of a heal for the amount of damage it
absorbs. (note that the tests were all done by a priest with Subtlety talent =
-20% threat for healing, which does not affect PW:S).

PW:S takes AC into account. 

Warriors generate a very small amount of rage from taking hits. Switching to
defensive stance does not *appear* to significantly change this. With PW:S on
them, they still generate rage by taking hits. It may be reduced, but not
apparently (significantly) so.

A simple model for Fade is that it subtracts off an amount of aggro equal to
around two flash heals (~1000 HP for a 41 priest w/ Subtlety) and then returns
it after 10 seconds is up.

Note that a single Greater Heal can generate more aggro than Fade can get rid
of. If you are near even aggro with your tank and use it, Fade will not save you
from being attacked.

Healing done before and during the Fade have the same impact. 

After the fade expires, the amount of aggro is the same as if you never Faded. 

Fade appears to have several unintuitive behaviors which belie the simple model
posed above:

- We have seen several situations where Fade expired and aggro did not return to
us until we acted, at which point it behaved as expected. Other people have
attempted to replicate this behavior and not seen it. Chances are that this is a
bug, something you might want to play with but not depend on.

- When Fade fails to remove a mob from you, it does not make that mob easier to
remove. It's all or nothing.

- It is possible that when Fade fails it actually makes it harder to remove the
mob for the duration of the Fade.

HoT and DoT spells generate aggro on each tick, not on cast. 

Hunter traps generate aggro like any other DoT. 

Bandaging generates aggro like any other HoT. I did not test in detail for the
amount of aggro.

Health potions generate threat, although at a reduced rate per HP from Priest
healing spells.

Mana potions generate threat per MP returned, which can be quite a lot of threat. 

Surprisingly, engineering Explosive Sheep do not generate aggro. Most likely it
is treated like a pet and thus generates aggro for itself, lost instantaneously
upon it's tragic death by explosion.



The Random Secondary Targetting System (RSTS) is a system of much confusion
amongst the playerbase. Due to their experiences in other MMORPGS, they are very
slow to grasp how it works. The biggest mistake people make is not realizing
that it is indeed "random".

One of the best examples to illustrate the RSTS is with Gehennas. In the case of
Gehennas both the shadow bolt and the AE rain use the RSTS. The first thing
guilds tend to do when mages and priests start eating rains and bolts on
gehennas is yell at them for "over aggroing". In reality, their aggro level has
nothing to do with it - they were simply randomly selected by gehennas.

What further causes people to misunderstand it is the fact that Gehennas will
often use 2 or 3 shadow bolts in a row on the same person. They think because
that happened, it isn't random. This is false. The reason they are eating
multiple abilities in a row is because Gehennas simply hasn't yet "randomly"
switched to a new target in between the abilities. It seems in the case of
Gehennas and other mobs that they change their 2ndary target about every 5
seconds give or take.

Simply put - the use of abilities and the changing of the secondary target are
two completely seperate mechanics.. I believe the purpose of the system is to
provide an element of unpredictability that was usually absent in games like
Everquest and so on. It is there to "keep you on your toes".

Gehennas is not the only mob that uses this system. Indeed it seems like most
all abilities that do not hit the main tank use the RSTS.
